Before we can train our deep learning models,
we need to do a bit of pre-processing on our images.
We have laid the groundwork for how we analyze imaging properties,
and in this part of the lesson,
we'll learn how to apply what we've learned to pre-processing techniques.
We'll also learn about something called image augmentation,
which is a really powerful tool for deep learning.
Image pre-processing has several goals;
removing noise from our images.
One way to do this is through background extraction using Otsu's method,
as we talked about earlier,
enforcing some normalization across images so the weights of the CNN are within control,
enlarging your data for training by image augmentation,
and making your images the right dimensions for your CNN.
Intensity normalization is good practice and
should always be done prior to using data for training.
There are two types of normalization that you can perform.
Here I've used Otsu's method to remove all background pixels and I am just
looking at the frequency distribution of pixel intensities in the actual breast image.
The first type of normalization is just called zero meaning your image.
What it means is that you find
the mean intensity value of your image and subtract that value from every pixel.
See how the distribution is now centered around zero mean?
That's why it's called zero meaning.
The other type of normalization we can apply is called standardization.
With this approach, we not only subtract the mean from each pixel,
but we also divide by the images standard deviation.
Notice here now that the range of our intensity values follows that of
a standard normal distribution, hence, standardization.
For deep learning, standardization is the preferred approach,
making all of your intensity values fall within a small range that is close to zero,
helps the weights of our convolutional filters stand
our control and not fly off the handles to infinity.
We can't possibly provide our CNN with examples of
what every possible image might look like out there in the real world,
but the more different types of examples it can see,
the more powerful it will be.
Image augmentation is a really powerful technique that allows us to
create different versions of our original data to try to make up for these examples.
Keras provides an amazing package for us to do this called image data generator.
Here is an example of implementing Keras' ImageDataGenerator.
There are tons of options that we can adjust and play with for image augmentation,
and here I'll go over just a few that might be useful for medical imaging.
Let's look at horizontal flip.
All this is doing is flipping an image from left to right.
This is definitely something that I might see in the clinical world,
so I'll set it to true for my medical imaging work.
Height and width shift range basically allow my image to be stretched up or down.
It is usually used within a certain limit because it might
mirror seeing larger or skinnier people in my medical images.
Rotation range specifies how much I can rotate my image around its center.
Note here that there probably is a limit to how much rotation we'd want to use.
If we go too far,
we'll get sideways images,
which we'd probably never see in a clinical setting.
Shear range indicates how much we pull the image's top and bottom in opposite directions.
Again, this type of augmentation can be used,
but probably has a limit for medical imaging.
Finally, we have zoom range.
This tells us how much we can zoom in to parts of our image.
Again, this has limits because we don't want to zoom in
so far that the image no longer even looks like a medical image.
With all of these, it's up to you to tweak the values
for the parameters and decide how much augmentation you want.
You may have noticed that I haven't talked about vertical flip.
One really important thing to keep in mind is that the goal of image augmentation is to
give your network more examples of what an image could look like in the real world.
So not every type of augmentation would be appropriate for medical imaging.
Vertical flip is one of the augmentations not appropriate here.
See how I've set the parameter to be false?
That's because setting it to true would create
upside-down images in my augmented training set.
I'm not going to see upside-down images in the real world of medical imaging,
so this isn't a type of augmentation that I should use.
One other thing to note is this rescale option.
You can use this as an alternative to
the intensity normalization methods we described earlier.
What this section of the code does is that it takes every pixel and divides it by 255,
which is the max intensity value on gray scale images.
This has a similar outcome as the standardization technique and
that all values of intensity become somewhere between 0 and 1,
avoiding our networks filter weights to fly off to infinity.
Recall from earlier in this lesson that CNNs have
an input layer that specifies the size of the image they can process.
The architecture above is from VGG 16 and we see that it
takes images that are size 224 by 224 as input.
We just saw that Keras provides us a tool called
ImageDataGenerator to do a bunch of augmentation on our images.
Once we create an ImageDataGenerator that
contains the types of augmentation we want to use,
Keras also has a handy tool called flow from
Directory that allows us to pull images from a directory on our computer,
say one that contains all of our training data,
and pull sets directly from there to augment.
In this flow from directory tool,
there's a parameter called target size.
It's here that we can specify the dimensions that we want
our image to be resized to based on the input layer of our CNN.
All of the augmentation we just discussed should only be applied to
training data and your validation data should never be augmented.
Remember how we didn't create
an artificial imbalance of training and validation data in our validation split?
It's a similar principle with validation and we never want to augment this dataset.
Validation data should still be normalized so intensity values are close to zero,
but other than that,
it should not be stretched,
sheared, zoomed, or any other type of augmentation.
Remember, we want our validation data to reflect
the real world and only be comprised of real data.